<!-- COMMUNITY-GOVERNANCE -->
# **Community Governance**


## **Open Community Call, IOTA Discord 10.02.2022**

<!-- COMMUNITY - CALL AGENDA -->
## **Community - call Agenda:**

1. Welcome and Introduction - a short recap
1. Some needed clarification about the origin of the "more than 50Ti tokens."
4. The final Firefly voting layout
5. Treasury Task Force? Who wants to engage
6. Open-end community discussion to participate and create ideas

The [Agenda presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-T9WfsMgQ09CRIBddUDmWfFP-sWMRVW4ZMU69ofEmEM/edit?usp=sharing) contains graphics and more information


The [recording](https://youtu.be/ud85ClxJk9E) of this meeting can be found in the [Youtube playlist](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PL5joP0FyJQU4eKPWfQWradNVjMIPq86ID)
<!-- DISCUSSED TOPICS -->
## **Discussed Topics**

### 2. **clarification on the origin of the tokens that are up to a community decision in this upcoming vote"**

It is essential to clarify that non of those tokens have ever been under the control of the IOTA Foundation.
They also don't originate from any events where a "bug" happened. 
 
<img width="775" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/77154511/153540609-1a45b065-42e5-4007-82c8-c0c49981e58a.png">



### 3. **The Firefly voting layout**

We showcased the finalized design and UI/UX flow for the vote.

### 4. **Treasury Task Force?**

We talked about the time after the vote. If the outcome of the vote were to "BUILD," the community has a big goal to achieve. It is to create a Treasury DAO that can efficiently and securely hand out grants to projects the community votes and wants to support.
- Building this DAO will take a lot of engaged community members.
- We should already start to gather talents in anticipation of a possible outcome and be prepared accordingly. Presenting different possibilities of treasury management to the community needs extensive research and collaboration
- Of course, the community managers and Holger have researched this topic profoundly and gained already deep knowledge. They will be available and happy to share knowledge and educate interested members to participate in such a building process.
- Proposed is to build working groups that focus on specific topics. Every community member is invited to participate, either by actively contributing or just by following to learn something about a specific topic
- Some of the envisioned working groups would include:
    - Governance structure
    - Finance/Accounting
    - Tokenomics
    - Voting technology
    - Smart contracts
    - Legal entity 
    - Communication
    - grant-proposal management
    - DevOps / Infrastructure

- Interested community members should put their Discord handle down in this [work sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1FhJGCR-APsDBtheX9KSQp5SfMOFVTCshTR0LP7tRuFQ/edit#gid=0)
- We will create dedicated channels in the Discord where those teams can organize themselves, share knowledge, and start exploring those topics

- We want to stress that EVERYONE who wants to engage can be helpful for the project. You don't need to be a computer scientist, attorney, economist to become a valuable part of this initiative. It is about learning by doing and engaging, and collaborating with others.
Even if the vote turns out to be decided for Burn, the work in that task force will be helpful for everyone and other projects coming into the IOTA Ecosystem like DAO's and Treasuries on the Shimmer and Assembly network.


### **Open end community discussions**

- A lot of questions regarding the upcoming vote have been brought up during the call, and we could answer and clarify many things.


### **Contribute**

**The involved community members want to highlight that the above-discussed topics are all open to discussions for every community member that wants to engage or raise concerns or disagreements about it. The community's positive feedback and input on all the above-discussed topics are welcomed. All meetings and calls will happen in the public channels, and members are invited and welcome to join and raise their voices during the sessions. All code and technical solutions used in the Community voting system will always be fully open-sourced and published on GitHub**


#### **The next community call in the Discord is planned for Thursday, 17.02.22 at 2 pm UTC**

by Phylo#2233 for the community


