## **Shimmer Governance Framework Meeting 14.07.2022**
**Discussed:**
- Question #14 JD (DeepSea) and Andy W to discourse a structure/guiding principles for which Phase I proposals must meet to move to phase II. This should prevent Moderator/Admin bias and support to mitigate spam.
- Question #19 Trust level discussion to be completed by: JD, Andy, Overclock, Marco, Antonio, and Phylo on 7-15-22.
- Question #25 Phylo to build a Calendar showing the voting schedule for the year. With the visual example the group can discuss if there are any times that should be adjusted (either for blackouts or extended voting times) to account for things like holiday's or low voting times.
- Question #28 Phylo to assess for question #28 that is a proposal tracker spreadsheet that links to the proposals themselves.
- Questions #30 to run a test proposal to analyze, assess, and try to finalize the overall process of Phases in detail. Action group to meet Monday July 18th (JD, Andy, Phylo, Asa, Mariana, and anyone else) time TBD.
- Question #33 to be covered in the Trust Level action meeting.
- Question #34 to be covered in the Trust Level action meeting.



**Decisions:**

- Confirmed decisions discussed within the Governance Framework Open Questions (https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UivhoMzoxrzCyT_51CFWNjvPbJBMRtjkaNfp5DPFOqI/edit#gid=1218746277)
- Confirmed decisions to questions: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, & 27 around Roles, Moderators, & Admins. Not objections from anyone in the group call. These questions were considered "Solved".
- Question #22 no rejections and considered "solved". For final phase proposals (for example Phase III proposals), those proposals in Discourse auto-generates a "thread" in Discord under the Phase III proposal "channel". These threads will either auto-archive when the vote is completed, will auto-archive after seven days if there is no discussions, and or, if the Vote doesn't go to Firefly and closes out the thread will also be archived. Threads are meant to allow for community discussion. No objections and considered "solved". Phase I and Phase II proposals to auto-generate a message in Phase I (channel) and Phase II (Channel). No objections and considered "solved"
- Question #23 Category structure to be: Shimmer Governance -> Phase I, II, III, Archived, etc.. There can be two tiers in Discourse. Also there will be an archived section for all proposals. No objections and considered "solved".
- Question #27 discussed that the initial voting module will be used through Firefly. Should different voting modules become available, the community can submit a proposal to update the framework at that time.  No objections and considered "solved".
- Question #29 - Submitter to be responsible for creating their proposals, proposal run-offs, and proposal submittal forms. No objections and considered "solved"
- Question #31 - Moderators and Admins will be required to take a successful Phase III proposal and merge that into Github to generate a Firefly vote. No objections and considered "solved"



**Next meeting:**

- Action group to discuss trust levels and how participation access is granted in Discourse. Meeting to be held on July 15th and time designated by Antonio and Phylo.
- Action group set to meet on Monday July 18th to include (JD, Andy, Phylo, Asa, Mariana, and anyone else) in which a test mock example of a proposal run through (Start-to-finish) is to be discussed. Objective is to assess the process, run-off polling, proposal Identification and tracking, and final announcement. Time TBD.
- Next official group meeting set for Tuesday July 19th. Will summarize the Trust level, discuss, and finalize process.
