<!-- COMMUNITY-GOVERNANCE -->
# **Community Governance**


## **Open Community Call, IOTA Discord 30.06.2022**

<!-- COMMUNITY - CALL AGENDA -->
## **Community - call Agenda:**

1. Welcome and Introduction
2. Treasury DAO
    - Introduction to potential next steps
    - some open questions from the action group
    - let us get more organized and task-driven
3. Shimmer token supply increase proposal - questions to Kappy
4. Open-end community discussion to participate and create ideas

The [Agenda presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1M7sr4c1GYWCFk7FBw90BXQt84s49yhxftLJ73ogdXy0/edit?usp=sharing) contains graphics and more information


The recording of this meeting can be found in the [Youtube playlist](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PL5joP0FyJQU4eKPWfQWradNVjMIPq86ID)
<!-- DISCUSSED TOPICS -->
## **Discussed Topics**

### **Treasury DAO**

- As the vote was in favor of building a treasury, the community must now process into setting this treasury up
- The bridge-fund working group has prepared some questions to clarify next steps:
    - **Which Legal Wrapper?**
        Very much everyone agrees that the Treasury DAO will need a legal Wrapper. The community needs legal advice from a knowledgeable lawyer to decide which legal entity to choose. After this advice, the community must decide on the preferred legal setup and establish the legal entity.
      This will cost money. Dom has agreed to loan the needed funds and cover all legal costs, as long as the Treasury will return the funds to him after it is established.
        Also, the IOTA Foundation is happy to support the community with legal resources.
        - **Action steps:**
        - Setup Discord channel "Legal entity" to focus community discussions - done
        - contact lawyers that could be willing to work for the community
        - collect and define a list of potential legal setups
        - setup a meeting to specifically discuss legal setups
        - Potential candidates: Biyan Mienert (Attorney and former legal counsel for the IF), Noderunner (Attorney in Switzerland), and IOTA Poet (Attorney in the UK).
        - **please recommend further lawyers if known**

    - If the community would vote for a Shimmer treasury, would the community set up two separate legal entities (one for Shimmer, one for IOTA)? - This needs to be clarified with the lawyer.

- Which voting system?
    - The community needs to decide which voting system shall be used to make decisions in the Treasury DAO
    - 1 Token = 1 Vote as used in the Firefly Wallet, or if the community should explore alternative voting mechanisms

- Who can be a DAO member?
    - Should every IOTA token holder be a member of the DAO, or should other criteria be put in place to define membership of the Treasury DAO?

- Does the DAO need Staff?
    - Does the Treasury need persons in charge of specific tasks? If yes, how should the community select them?

- How can governance proposals be brought into a decision-making process in the Treasury?
    - Which methods and requirements shall be used to request funding and to decide on funding requests
        - The bridge fund working group has worked intensively on this question during the last months and has created a collection of documents that represent their ideas
        - **Task for Bridge Fund members:** Aggregate all those findings and ideas in one document for the community so that they can be easily processed 
        - Here is an overview document created by #Deep_Sea that shows what has been worked on so far: [Bridge fund tasks](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Z8f0NldRDdztYIkXqM2M3GHK5p4JV9fDuMP4jlricy8/edit#gid=0)

- Furthermore, we went into a fruitful discussion/question round to clarify several things around the potential timelines, which relation between a Shimmer and an IOTA treasury would exist, and what would make the most sense to progress now
    - Outcome is that we will set up a Discord poll to clarify these questions (collected by #Deep_Sea):
        - How should we direct the efforts and energy of this Treasury Group?
            1. The Treasury Group should only focus on IOTA's Treasury Governance framework.
            2. The Treasury Group should start with building the Shimmer Governance DAO framework, and then the Shimmer & IOTA Treasury.
            3. The Treasury Group should focus on the IOTA's Treasury only and members can form other groups to build the Shimmer governance DAO and Treasury.
            4. The Treasury Group should let the IF, Phylo, or whomever, build a governance framework and present it to the Treasury Community group to advise and vote on.
        - Steps forward (recommended by Overclocked):
            1. setting up the legal framework (legal wrapper) for shimmer community treasury DAO.
            2. continue work on the bridge fund process for giving out grants to port over to shimmer treasury DAO
            3. figure out separation possibly between shimmer treasury DAO and the governance DAO
            4. use phylo's governance proposal as a springboard for shimmer governance discussions and setting it up

### **Proposal to increse the Shimmer supply by 20%**

A proposal to increase the Shimmer token supply at network launch by 20% and give 10% into a community treasury and 10% into the hands of the EDF in Switzerland was first brought up by #Kappy in the governance forum on 4 May [Read it here](https://govern.iota.org/t/discussion-proposal-to-increase-the-shimmer-supply-for-a-community-treasury/1291)
After discussions in the forum and in the community, Kappy issued a follow-up proposal on 28 June to bring this question as a vote by all IOTA token holders into Firefly.

   - His proposal asks:
       - Should the Shimmer token supply at network launch be increased by 20% and be split into equal parts. One part given to a Shimmer community Treasury DAO and the second part given to the Ecosystem Development Fund managed by the IOTA Foundation?
     
- Options:
    - Yes, launch the Shimmer network with additional 20% supply and give 10% to a Shimmer community Treasury DAO and 10% to the EDF
    - No, do not increase the Shimmer supply

Kappy was available to answer some open questions to the community. Please direct open questions into the discussion in the governance forum or message him directly.

### **Organizational stuff**

- The weekly open Governance call will be moved one hour later to 4 pm CEST to make it more accessible for the European community
- The Bridge fund working group decides internally if it would like to open up to more public contributions. This could then be set up as a second public weekly meeting Wednesday at 4 pm CEST.
- We all agreed that we need to take more concrete action in the meetings and invite more contributors, assign tasks, and move forward.






### **Contribute**

**The involved community members want to highlight that the above-discussed topics are all open to discussions for every community member that wants to engage or raise concerns or disagreements about it. The community's positive feedback and input on all the above-discussed topics are welcome. All meetings and calls will happen in the public channels, and members are invited and welcome to join and raise their voices during the sessions.**


#### **The next community call in the Discord is planned for Thursday, 07.07.22 at 4 pm CEST**

by Phylo#2233 for the community


