# **Shimmer Governance Framework Meeting via Discord 7 July 2022**



New meeting times confirmed in the last call

Tuesday 16:00 CEST & Thursday 17:00 CEST: Government calls
Wednesday 16:00 CEST: Treasury DAO calls



**Recording of the meeting is here:** [https://youtu.be/z_dfDOXoQHc](https://youtu.be/z_dfDOXoQHc)

## **Confirmed decisions**



* The [open questions](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UivhoMzoxrzCyT_51CFWNjvPbJBMRtjkaNfp5DPFOqI/edit#gid=1218746277) on the Shimmer governance framework have been categorized into different topics for better overview
* Marco, JD, Phylo, and Andy to tackle making a tangible solution to questions concerning categories in the open questions document: (Roles, Roles: Moderator, & Roles: Forum Admin). Details of such roles hopefully will be confirmed next week.
* The admin role can approve, delete, change anything in the forum and sees details such as IP addresses in the community. These roles should be held by Antonio & Phylo, Mark Schmidt and Andrew Grewe

## **Discussed points**



* Two different options for a task-oriented approach suggested in [this document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1fMEpHX8YvIPDVnzxANhe63poYOr2-TZY8UfnW2EoziM/edit#gid=961152394).
1. Category-based with different tasks grouped into different categories
2. Milestone-focused approach
* Many questions about the moderator role of the governance framework. We will need some people doing ‘house-keeping’ in the forums, as well as making sure that everyone follows the guidelines. Important to remember that the moderator has to be someone with time. However, this moderator role is within the community and should thus require less work. Mostly an administrative task to review proposals. Other forums do not have much problems with spamming.
* If anyone would like to be a moderator, this should be informed in order to start testing it out, as we then may discover what works/what does not work regarding the moderator role in that way. Many in the community do not have a clear understanding of what works/does not work with a moderator role, hence it is suggested to try it out and refine the role definition from the experience. 
* Moderator Requirements:

    Two of five moderators picked directly from the Governance channel


    Admins (Phylo, Antonio, Mark, and IT) and 2 moderators (from the Governance group) will review additionally three moderator submissions.

* Moderation administration activity discussed, that there could be a defined structure, that if a submitter submits spams and has three rejections in a row, they get tagged, and proposals can get rejected without summaries moving forward.
* Discussed that we can better integrate and create involvement in the Governance website though automated processes that interconnect Discord, other social medias, and work that into with the Governance Website. It would be good to try and track some of the data from different platforms.
* The moderator role has the right to approve posts aiming to reach phase 2.
* For the moderator, there is no need to keep track of and removed spamming posts/users. They can simply be deleted.
* A proposal in phase 1 can be given a channel or a thread in order to allow for discussion as they can take a long time before reaching the second phase, however the phases 2 and 3 should happen in the forum in order for them to be public for everyone. 

## **Actions for next meeting (Tuesday 12 July)**



* JD, Andy BDG, Marco and Phylo to work on drafting selection criteria for moderators as well as rights and differences between forum admins and forum moderators.
* The 4 will concretely work on defining the moderator role until next week.
* Continue working on the [open questions](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UivhoMzoxrzCyT_51CFWNjvPbJBMRtjkaNfp5DPFOqI/edit#gid=1218746277) on the governance framework
